Some students have had difficulty connecting to the instances in the private subnets using Agent forwarding
when they're connecting from a Windows P.C..
So in the labs we've done this and we've used Agent forwarding using SSH.
And when you use Windows P.C. you have to use Putty and a tool called Pageant.
And I want to show you how to do that in this lab just to make absolutely clear. So the configuration
is going to be much like this.
We have a private subnet.
We've got a NAT gateway for outbound Internet access and we're gonna be connecting from a Windows P.C.
on the Internet and we're going to connect to our jump host here and then from our jump post we're going
to connect it to the private instance.
But the point is we don't want to have any keys stored here so we're going to use Agent forwarding from
the windows P.C. so that once we've connected to this one we don't need to specify a key pair in order
to connect to the private instance.
So let's head over to the console and see how we can do this.
Now before we get started in the console I just want to show you.
If you search for Agent forwarding AWS EC2 one of the first articles that you're going to find here
is securely connect to Linux instances running in a private Amazon VPC.
And if you come down here it gives you all the information about how to do this using SSH and then
it also shows you how to do it on Windows.
And so we're basically going to follow the instructions here and I'll walk you through that now.
So the configuration is we have our instance in the public subnet and we have an instance which is
in a private subnet.
All it has is a private IP address.
Now I have a Windows virtual machine running on my computer and I have Putty installed and I've also
got my keypair file saved as a private key file so a PPK file which we can use with Putty and I showed
you how to do that earlier on in the section.
So what I need to do first is I'm going to go to this tool called Pageant and I click on pageant and
you'll see the system tray icon pops up and I double click on that.
We can now add a key and I'm gonna choose this key on my desktop.
This is the PPK file and click on open.
Now if you've configured a password you'll have to put the password in but I didn't do that.
So if I just closed out I now have the PPK file or the keypair actually loaded into pageant and it's
going to now forward that on for us.
So what I do is I open Putty.
I just want to change a setting here and then we need to go down to SSH auth and I don't specify a
private key file here.
All I do is click on allow agent forwarding so you don't need to specify the file and then then go to
session and let's connect to our public instance.
So I just need to get the IP address and I don't actually have the clipboard working on this.
So I'm just going to have to type this in.
So I still need to do.
Easy ec2-user@ and let's put in the IP so it's 52.62.87.112.
And now we just click open.
And so we're connected to our EC2 instance.
If I just expand this so that it's a bit more clear for you.
And what I want to do now is get the IP address of my private instance.
So that's 10.0.4.100.
So I shouldn't need to specify a key pair now.
I just need to do SSh ec2-user@10.0.4.100 and hit enter and there we are we can
now see that we're connected to 10.0.4.100 and that's the instance in the private subnet.
So that's how you do it.
You know the instructions are there on the AWS Web site as well so you can easily follow through on
those.
But that's how you connect.
So the key thing to remember is you've got to set up the pageant tool.
And when you install Putty that will be installed by default.
So you get a couple of tools you get the PuttyGen and the pageant.
So just add your key pair to pageant and then when you connect allow agent forwarding but don't specify
you keep pair file.